OSDOCS-6442 Secure token usage with oc client while doing oc login (#61984)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cli-logging-in-web.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-logging-in-web_{context}"]

> = Logging in to the OpenShift CLI using the web

Author: Done, thank you!

> You can log in to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) using the web to access and manage your cluster. This allows the user to avoid inputting their password into the command line.

Author: Changed, thank you!

// Is this accurate?

== Logging in through a web browser with the CLI

.Prerequisites

* You must have access to an {product-title} cluster.

> * You must have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

Author: Added, thank you!

.Procedure

. Enter the `oc login` command with the '--web' flag:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --web
----

[WARNING]
====

> Logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. Use with caution on shared computers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. Use with caution on multi-user workstations.
```

Author: Changed, thank you!

====

. The web browser will open automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output.
+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --web <1>
Opening login URL in the default browser: <https://openshift.example.com>
Opening in existing browser session.
----
<1> If needed, you can specify the callback port by adding `--callback-port 8280 localhost:8443`
// If I remove localhost:8443 will the command still work?

> . Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. Once logged in the browser will display the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.

Reviewer: You may need to choose an IDP first before getting to an actual login page.

Reviewer 2: The browser isn't getting an actual access token indeed; it just prints this message to signal the successful completion of the whole process, after the callback server exchanges the authz code for a token.

https://github.com/openshift/library-go/blob/master/pkg/oauth/tokenrequest/callback_server.go#L106

Reviewer: should it be this, then?

```suggestion
. Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. Once logged in, the CLI will display the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.
```

+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
Login successful.

You don't have any projects. You can try to create a new project, by running

    oc new-project <projectname>

----

[NOTE]
====

> Your browser will remember previous sessions. To switch between profiles, log out of the OpenShift Console and clear the cache.

Reviewer: What's a profile in this case? Why should I clear my cache if I can just log out of my IdP?

== Logging in through a web browser with the CLI

.Prerequisites

* You must have access to an {product-title} cluster.
* You must have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You must have a browser installed.

.Procedure

. Enter the `oc login` command with the '--web' flag:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login <https://api.your-openshift-server.com> --web
----

[WARNING]
====
Logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. Use with caution on multi-user workstations.
====

. The web browser will open automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the OpenShift Container Platform server 'oc' will try to open the OpenShift Console of the cluster specified in the current 'oc' config file. If no 'oc' configuration exists, 'oc' will prompt interactively for the server URL.
+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --web <1>
Opening login URL in the default browser: <https://openshift.example.com>
Opening in existing browser session.
----

> <1> If needed, you can specify the callback port.

Reviewer 2: I would either mention the server URL here:
```suggestion
<1> If needed, you can specify the callback port and server URL.
```

or omit `localhost:8443` from the example; currently it reads as if the URL is part of the callback port.

Author: Change made, thank you!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-logging-in-web_{context}"]
= Logging in to the OpenShift CLI using a web browser

You can log in to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) with the help of a web browser to access and manage your cluster. This allows users to avoid inserting their access token into the command line.

[WARNING]
====

> Logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. Use with caution on multi-user workstations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On multi-user workstations, logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. HTTP should be used with caution. 
```

Reviewer 4: This suggestion changes the meaning a bit, and I don't think it's quite accurate. It's not only on multi-user workstations that the server runs with HTTP.

Reviewer 3: Is that better?

Reviewer 4: I think there could be some room for improvement here, but I still think that changes the meaning and is less clear

Reviewer 4: I think I would keep it as two sentences. The first explains what happens. And then the second is cautionary.

I might make the following suggestion (to be clearer it's about logging into the CLI w/ a browser, not logging into the web console w/ a browser). And we could join them with a semicolon. But I think we have to separate the statement about it using HTTP and using caution on multi-user workstations

```suggestion
Logging in to the CLI through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS; use with caution on multi-user workstations.
```

Author: Change made, thank you!

* You must have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You must have a browser installed.

.Procedure

. Enter the `oc login` command with the `--web` flag:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login <cluster_url> --web <1>
----
<1> If needed, you can specify the callback port and server URL.

. The web browser opens automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the {product-title} server `oc` tries to open the web console of the cluster specified in the current `oc` configuration file. If no `oc` configuration exists, `oc` prompts interactively for the server URL.
+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
Opening login URL in the default browser: https://openshift.example.com
Opening in existing browser session.
----
+
.Example 

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login <https://api.your-openshift-server.com> --web --callback-port 8280 localhost:8443
----
. If more than one identity provider is available, select your choice from the options provided. 

. Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. After you are logged in, the browser displays the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`. 

> . Check the CLI for a log in confirmation.

Reviewer 4: log in -> login

Author: Changed, thanks!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-logging-in-web_{context}"]
= Logging in to the OpenShift CLI using a web browser

You can log in to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) with the help of a web browser to access and manage your cluster. This allows users to avoid inserting their access token into the command line.

> == Logging in through a web browser with the CLI

Reviewer 4: Procedure modules can't have subheadings like this. I think you can safely just remove it.

.Prerequisites

* You must have access to an {product-title} cluster.
* You must have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You must have a browser installed.

.Procedure

> . Enter the `oc login` command with the '--web' flag:

Reviewer 4: This should be backticks instead of single quotes

```suggestion
. Enter the `oc login` command with the `--web` flag:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc login <https://api.your-openshift-server.com> --web

Reviewer 4: Replaceable values should be in the format of `<my_value>`. I'd update this to be something like `<cluster_url>`

```suggestion
$ oc login <cluster_url> --web
```

or an example value without the angle brackets, like:

```suggestion
$ oc login https://api.your-openshift-server.com --web
```

----

> 

Reviewer 4: Right now this warning note is disrupting the numbering of the procedure. You'll need to add a `+` on this line to keep the warning with the above step.

[WARNING]
====
Logging in through the web browser runs a server on localhost with HTTP, not HTTPS. Use with caution on multi-user workstations.
====

> . The web browser will open automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the {product-title} server 'oc' will try to open the OpenShift Console of the cluster specified in the current 'oc' config file. If no 'oc' configuration exists, 'oc' prompts interactively for the server URL.

Reviewer 4: A few things, both for style and other things.

```suggestion
. The web browser opens automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the {product-title} server, `oc` tries to open the web console of the cluster specified in the current `oc` configuration file. If no configuration exists, `oc` prompts interactively for the server URL.
```

> . The web browser will open automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the {product-title} server 'oc' will try to open the OpenShift Console of the cluster specified in the current 'oc' config file. If no 'oc' configuration exists, 'oc' will prompt interactively for the server URL.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. The web browser will open automatically. If it does not, click the link in the command output. If you do not specify the {product-title} server 'oc' will try to open the OpenShift Console of the cluster specified in the current 'oc' config file. If no 'oc' configuration exists, 'oc' prompts interactively for the server URL.
```

Reviewer 5: Avoid future tense

Author: Changed, thank you!

+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc login --web <1>

Reviewer 4: Since you already listed the command in the above code block, this one should just be the example output. I'd remove this line, and move the <1> callout to the previous step's command.

Since you have an example command though you could always move it into a NOTE after the command block.

Though there is already a WARNING right after step 1, and we normally try to avoid back-to-back admonitions. This warning seems like something that doesn't have to be after step 1 though. I'd consider moving it up to before the prerequisites.

Opening login URL in the default browser: <https://openshift.example.com>
Opening in existing browser session.
----
<1> If needed, you can specify the callback port and server URL.
+
.Example 

[source,terminal]
----

> `oc login --web --callback-port 8280 localhost:8443`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
$ oc login --web --callback-port 8280 localhost:8443
```

Reviewer 5: I dont think the backticks are necessary here because you want this to render as code, right? Also a dollar sign is needed

----
. If more than one identity provider is available select your choice from the options provided. 

> . Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. Once logged in the browser will display the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. Once logged in the browser displays the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.
```

Author: Changed, thank you!

> . Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. Once logged in the browser displays the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.

Reviewer 4: A few style things

```suggestion
. Enter your username and password into the corresponding browser fields. After you are logged in, the browser displays the text `access token received successfully; please return to your terminal`.
```

+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----

> Login successful.

Reviewer 4: This example output doesn't seem to correspond with the above step, which ended on what you see in the browser. I'd add a line somehow introducing this, saying that you see "Login successful." in the CLI

You don't have any projects. You can try to create a new project, by running

    oc new-project <projectname>

----

[NOTE]
====

> Your browser will remember previous sessions. To switch between Administrator and Developer profiles, log out of the OpenShift Console and clear the cache.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The web console defaults to the profile used in the previous session. To switch between Administrator and Developer profiles, log out of the {product-title} web console and clear the cache.
```

Reviewer 5: Lessens the anthropomorphism of “the browser remembers” and also switching some future tense.
